AI/ML  Applications incl Web Scraping, Data Mining & Analysis  

We apply AI (Artificial Intelligence), block chain, big data analysis and data mining technologies to undertake fine-tuned analysis and optimization.

We help you search the web for whatever you want to know incl also emails, Skype IDs, wechat IDs, mobile nos, various products and price information, based on popular search engines and spiders. Indepth analyses will also be provided. Crawling or scraping results will be provided according to the formats required by clients. 

Custom crawlers may also be developed for you, particularly in Java and python. Using customized crawlers or spiders you are in control of the whole search process, avoiding any possible privacy violation and improving the reliability of the search results as well.

Our datascience services cover a much wider range of areas than those mentioned above, including but not limited to the following:

Create frameworks for automating and sustaining steady stream of data from many sources. 

Set up and operate the infrastructure for storing and analyzing data.

Develop tools & techniques related to the various processes or data extraction automation.

Implement various scrapers to extract data from simple to complex websites.

Gather data from a variety of Internet sources, cleanse it, and create APIs on top of it.

Construct and perform complex database search queries in multiple databases.

Take over existing scraping activities, and set up scrapers for additional data sources

Perform research on various data sources, to include unstructured data using quantitative and qualitative content analytics. 

Develop a variety of Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Models. 

Performing statistical analysis.

Interpret problems and provides solutions to business problems using data analysis, data mining, optimization tools, and machine learning techniques and statistics.

Expand and optimize the data and data pipeline architecture

Develop solutions that improve efficiency, leverage more amount of data efficiently,

Develop and execute Big Data Analytics and Machine learning applications.

Design and develop advanced AI and ML models that can analyse large datasets and identify patterns and provide insights to improve business operations. 

Develop highly scalable systems, algorithms, and tools on one platform to support machine learning and deep learning solutions.

Explore state-of-the-art deep learning techniques,

Partner with data science and domain engineering teams to support the business transformation through AI.

Designing ML systems.

Research and implement ML algorithms and tools.

Optimize ML algorithms and models for better accuracy and performance.

Conduct research to identify new AI and ML techniques and technologies.

Build and maintainscalable and reliable ML pipelines and infrastructures.

Ensuring the security and privacy of data in ML systems.

Implement machine learning algorithms.

Run AI systems experiments and tests.

Design and develop machine learning systems.

Running machine learning tests.

Extending machine learning libraries.

Other AI/ML consulting and development services.

Contact me for a start of your successful AI/ML and web data exploration.
